---
title: 基本操作
cover: /gallery/cover/JBCZ.png
thumbnail: /gallery/cover/JBCZ.png
date: 2021-05-22 22:22:25
tags:
  - 解谜
categories:
  - NLP
---

2021/5/22 下午九点，基本操作公众号发了一篇推送：解开谜题，获取基本操作的最新进展。[原文链接](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/RvtIj9t1AlYD54swi1PkoA)

<!--more-->

文章是一串不明所以的字符，因为公众号的排版存在许多的`-`，本身是不存在的。

原字符串：

~~~text
SULYDFBLVQHFHVVDUBIRUDQRSHQVRFLHWBLQWKHHOHFWURQLFDJHSULYDFBLVQRWVHFUHFBDSULYDWHPDWWHULVVRPHWKLQJRQHGRHVQWZDQWWKHZKROHZRUOGWRNQRZEXWDVHFUHWPDWWHULVVRPHWKLQJRQHGRHVQWZDQWDQBERGBWRNQRZSULYDFBLVWKHSRZHUWRVHOHFWLYHOBUHYHDORQHVHOIWRWKHZRUOGLIWZRSDUWLHVKDYHVRPHVRUWRIGHDOLQJVWKHQHDFKKDVDPHPRUBRIWKHLULQWHUDFWLRQHDFKSDUWBFDQVSHDNDERXWWKHLURZQPHPRUBRIWKLVKRZFRXOGDQBRQHSUHYHQWLWRQHFRXOGSDVVODZVDJDLQVWLWEXWWKHIUHHGRPRIVSHHFKHYHQPRUHWKDQSULYDFBLVIXQGDPHQWDOWRDQRSHQVRFLHWBZHVHHNQRWWRUHVWULFWDQBVSHHFKDWDOOLIPDQBSDUWLHVVSHDNWRJHWKHULQWKHVDPHIRUXPHDFKFDQVSHDNWRDOOWKHRWKHUVDQGDJJUHJDWHWRJHWKHUNQRZOHGJHDERXWLQGLYLGXDOVDQGRWKHUSDUWLHVWKHSRZHURIHOHFWURQLFFRPPXQLFDWLRQVKDVHQDEOHGVXFKJURXSVSHHFKDQGLWZLOOQRWJRDZDBPHUHOBEHFDXVHZHPLJKWZDQWLWWRVLQFHZHGHVLUHSULYDFBZHPXVWHQVXUHWKDWHDFKSDUWBWRDWUDQVDFWLRQKDYHNQRZOHGJHRQOBRIWKDWZKLFKLVGLUHFWOBQHFHVVDUBIRUWKDWWUDQVDFWLRQVLQFHDQBLQIRUPDWLRQFDQEHVSRNHQRIZHPXVWHQVXUHWKDWZHUHYHDODVOLWWOHDVSRVVLEOHLQPRVWFDVHVSHUVRQDOLGHQWLWBLVQRWVDOLHQWZKHQLSXUFKDVHDPDJDCLQHDWDVWRUHDQGKDQGFDVKWRWKHFOHUNWKHUHLVQRQHHGWRNQRZZKRLDPZKHQLDVNPBHOHFWURQLFPDLOSURYLGHUWRVHQGDQGUHFHLYHPHVVDJHVPBSURYLGHUQHHGQRWNQRZWRZKRPLDPVSHDNLQJRUZKDWLDPVDBLQJRUZKDWRWKHUVDUHVDBLQJWRPHPBSURYLGHURQOBQHHGNQRZKRZWRJHWWKHPHVVDJHWKHUHDQGKRZPXFKLRZHWKHPLQIHHVZKHQPBLGHQWLWBLVUHYHDOHGEBWKHXQGHUOBLQJPHFKDQLVPRIWKHWUDQVDFWLRQLKDYHQRSULYDFBLFDQQRWKHUHVHOHFWLYHOBUHYHDOPBVHOILPXVWDOZDBVUHYHDOPBVHOIWKHUHIRUHSULYDFBLQDQRSHQVRFLHWBUHTXLUHVDQRQBPRXVWUDQVDFWLRQVBVWHPVXQWLOQRZFDVKKDVEHHQWKHSULPDUBVXFKVBVWHPDQDQRQBPRXVWUDQVDFWLRQVBVWHPLVQRWDVHFUHWWUDQVDFWLRQVBVWHPDQDQRQBPRXVVBVWHPHPSRZHUVLQGLYLGXDOVWRUHYHDOWKHLULGHQWLWBZKHQGHVLUHGDQGRQOBZKHQGHVLUHGWKLVLVWKHHVVHQFHRISULYDFBSULYDFBLQDQRSHQVRFLHWBDOVRUHTXLUHVFUBSWRJUDSKBLILVDBVRPHWKLQJLZDQWLWKHDUGRQOBEBWKRVHIRUZKRPLLQWHQGLWLIWKHFRQWHQWRIPBVSHHFKLVDYDLODEOHWRWKHZRUOGLKDYHQRSULYDFBWRHQFUBSWLVWRLQGLFDWHWKHGHVLUHIRUSULYDFBDQGWRHQFUBSWZLWKZHDNFUBSWRJUDSKBLVWRLQGLFDWHQRWWRRPXFKGHVLUHIRUSULYDFBIXUWKHUPRUHWRUHYHDORQHVLGHQWLWBZLWKDVVXUDQFHZKHQWKHGHIDXOWLVDQRQBPLWBUHTXLUHVWKHFUBSWRJUDSKLFVLJQDWXUHZHFDQQRWHASHFWJRYHUQPHQWVFRUSRUDWLRQVRURWKHUODUJHIDFHOHVVRUJDQLCDWLRQVWRJUDQWXVSULYDFBRXWRIWKHLUEHQHILFHQFHLWLVWRWKHLUDGYDQWDJHWRVSHDNRIXVDQGZHVKRXOGHASHFWWKDWWKHBZLOOVSHDNWRWUBWRSUHYHQWWKHLUVSHHFKLVWRILJKWDJDLQVWWKHUHDOLWLHVRILQIRUPDWLRQLQIRUPDWLRQGRHVQRWMXVWZDQWWREHIUHHLWORQJVWREHIUHHLQIRUPDWLRQHASDQGVWRILOOWKHDYDLODEOHVWRUDJHVSDFHLQIRUPDWLRQLVUXPRUVBRXQJHUVWURQJHUFRXVLQLQIRUPDWLRQLVIOHHWHURIIRRWKDVPRUHHBHVNQRZVPRUHDQGXQGHUVWDQGVOHVVWKDQUXPRUZHPXVWGHIHQGRXURZQSULYDFBLIZHHASHFWWRKDYHDQBZHPXVWFRPHWRJHWKHUDQGFUHDWHVBVWHPVZKLFKDOORZDQRQBPRXVWUDQVDFWLRQVWRWDNHSODFHSHRSOHKDYHEHHQGHIHQGLQJWKHLURZQSULYDFBIRUFHQWXULHVZLWKZKLVSHUVGDUNQHVVHQYHORSHVFORVHGGRRUVVHFUHWKDQGVKDNHVDQGFRXULHUVWKHWHFKQRORJLHVRIWKHSDVWGLGQRWDOORZIRUVWURQJSULYDFBEXWHOHFWURQLFWHFKQRORJLHVGRZHWKHFBSKHUSXQNVDUHGHGLFDWHGWREXLOGLQJDQRQBPRXVVBVWHPVZHDUHGHIHQGLQJRXUSULYDFBZLWKFUBSWRJUDSKBZLWKDQRQBPRXVPDLOIRUZDUGLQJVBVWHPVZLWKGLJLWDOVLJQDWXUHVDQGZLWKHOHFWURQLFPRQHBFBSKHUSXQNVZULWHFRGHZHNQRZWKDWVRPHRQHKDVWRZULWHVRIWZDUHWRGHIHQGSULYDFBDQGVLQFHZHFDQWJHWSULYDFBXQOHVVZHDOOGRZHUHJRLQJWRZULWHLWZHSXEOLVKRXUFRGHVRWKDWRXUIHOORZFBSKHUSXQNVPDBSUDFWLFHDQGSODBZLWKLWRXUFRGHLVIUHHIRUDOOWRXVHZRUOGZLGHZHGRQWPXFKFDUHLIBRXGRQWDSSURYHRIWKHVRIWZDUHZHZULWHZHNQRZWKDWVRIWZDUHFDQWEHGHVWURBHGDQGWKDWDZLGHOBGLVSHUVHGVBVWHPFDQWEHVKXWGRZQFBSKHUSXQNVGHSORUHUHJXODWLRQVRQFUBSWRJUDSKBIRUHQFUBSWLRQLVIXQGDPHQWDOOBDSULYDWHDFWWKHDFWRIHQFUBSWLRQLQIDFWUHPRYHVLQIRUPDWLRQIURPWKHSXEOLFUHDOPHYHQODZVDJDLQVWFUBSWRJUDSKBUHDFKRQOBVRIDUDVDQDWLRQVERUGHUDQGWKHDUPRILWVYLROHQFHFUBSWRJUDSKBZLOOLQHOXFWDEOBVSUHDGRYHUWKHZKROHJOREHDQGZLWKLWWKHDQRQBPRXVWUDQVDFWLRQVVBVWHPVWKDWLWPDNHVSRVVLEOHIRUSULYDFBWREHZLGHVSUHDGLWPXVWEHSDUWRIDVRFLDOFRQWUDFWSHRSOHPXVWFRPHDQGWRJHWKHUGHSORBWKHVHVBVWHPVIRUWKHFRPPRQJRRGSULYDFBRQOBHAWHQGVVRIDUDVWKHFRRSHUDWLRQRIRQHVIHOORZVLQVRFLHWBZHWKHFBSKHUSXQNVVHHNBRXUTXHVWLRQVDQGBRXUFRQFHUQVDQGKRSHZHPDBHQJDJHBRXVRWKDWZHGRQRWGHFHLYHRXUVHOYHVZHZLOOQRWKRZHYHUEHPRYHGRXWRIRXUFRXUVHEHFDXVHVRPHPDBGLVDJUHHZLWKRXUJRDOVWKHFBSKHUSXQNVDUHDFWLYHOBHQJDJHGLQPDNLQJWKHQHWZRUNVVDIHUIRUSULYDFBOHWXVSURFHHGWRJHWKHUDSDFH
~~~

简单猜测是用的凯撒编码，然后就需要判断具体的偏移是多少了，有两种方法。

## 方法一

根据维基百科中的[字母频率](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E5%AD%97%E6%AF%8D%E9%A2%91%E7%8E%87)，可以知道英文中出现次数最多的是字母`e`,因此如果这个字符串使用了凯撒编码，那么出现次数最多的字母代表的就应该是字母`e`，统计结果如下图。

![字母频率统计](/gallery/others/count.png)

由图可见，出现次数最多的是字母`h`，可知偏移为3。

## 方法二

可以直接遍历所有的情况，然后观察一下。也可以得到相同的结果。

~~~python
string = 'SULYDFBLVQHFHVVDUBIRUDQRSHQVRFLHWBLQWKHHOHFWURQLFDJHSULYDFBLVQRWVHFUHFBDSULYDWHPDWWHULVVRPHWKLQJRQHGRHVQWZDQWWKHZKROHZRUOGWRNQRZEXWDVHFUHWPDWWHULVVRPHWKLQJRQHGRHVQWZDQWDQBERGBWRNQRZSULYDFBLVWKHSRZHUWRVHOHFWLYHOBUHYHDORQHVHOIWRWKHZRUOGLIWZRSDUWLHVKDYHVRPHVRUWRIGHDOLQJVWKHQHDFKKDVDPHPRUBRIWKHLULQWHUDFWLRQHDFKSDUWBFDQVSHDNDERXWWKHLURZQPHPRUBRIWKLVKRZFRXOGDQBRQHSUHYHQWLWRQHFRXOGSDVVODZVDJDLQVWLWEXWWKHIUHHGRPRIVSHHFKHYHQPRUHWKDQSULYDFBLVIXQGDPHQWDOWRDQRSHQVRFLHWBZHVHHNQRWWRUHVWULFWDQBVSHHFKDWDOOLIPDQBSDUWLHVVSHDNWRJHWKHULQWKHVDPHIRUXPHDFKFDQVSHDNWRDOOWKHRWKHUVDQGDJJUHJDWHWRJHWKHUNQRZOHGJHDERXWLQGLYLGXDOVDQGRWKHUSDUWLHVWKHSRZHURIHOHFWURQLFFRPPXQLFDWLRQVKDVHQDEOHGVXFKJURXSVSHHFKDQGLWZLOOQRWJRDZDBPHUHOBEHFDXVHZHPLJKWZDQWLWWRVLQFHZHGHVLUHSULYDFBZHPXVWHQVXUHWKDWHDFKSDUWBWRDWUDQVDFWLRQKDYHNQRZOHGJHRQOBRIWKDWZKLFKLVGLUHFWOBQHFHVVDUBIRUWKDWWUDQVDFWLRQVLQFHDQBLQIRUPDWLRQFDQEHVSRNHQRIZHPXVWHQVXUHWKDWZHUHYHDODVOLWWOHDVSRVVLEOHLQPRVWFDVHVSHUVRQDOLGHQWLWBLVQRWVDOLHQWZKHQLSXUFKDVHDPDJDCLQHDWDVWRUHDQGKDQGFDVKWRWKHFOHUNWKHUHLVQRQHHGWRNQRZZKRLDPZKHQLDVNPBHOHFWURQLFPDLOSURYLGHUWRVHQGDQGUHFHLYHPHVVDJHVPBSURYLGHUQHHGQRWNQRZWRZKRPLDPVSHDNLQJRUZKDWLDPVDBLQJRUZKDWRWKHUVDUHVDBLQJWRPHPBSURYLGHURQOBQHHGNQRZKRZWRJHWWKHPHVVDJHWKHUHDQGKRZPXFKLRZHWKHPLQIHHVZKHQPBLGHQWLWBLVUHYHDOHGEBWKHXQGHUOBLQJPHFKDQLVPRIWKHWUDQVDFWLRQLKDYHQRSULYDFBLFDQQRWKHUHVHOHFWLYHOBUHYHDOPBVHOILPXVWDOZDBVUHYHDOPBVHOIWKHUHIRUHSULYDFBLQDQRSHQVRFLHWBUHTXLUHVDQRQBPRXVWUDQVDFWLRQVBVWHPVXQWLOQRZFDVKKDVEHHQWKHSULPDUBVXFKVBVWHPDQDQRQBPRXVWUDQVDFWLRQVBVWHPLVQRWDVHFUHWWUDQVDFWLRQVBVWHPDQDQRQBPRXVVBVWHPHPSRZHUVLQGLYLGXDOVWRUHYHDOWKHLULGHQWLWBZKHQGHVLUHGDQGRQOBZKHQGHVLUHGWKLVLVWKHHVVHQFHRISULYDFBSULYDFBLQDQRSHQVRFLHWBDOVRUHTXLUHVFUBSWRJUDSKBLILVDBVRPHWKLQJLZDQWLWKHDUGRQOBEBWKRVHIRUZKRPLLQWHQGLWLIWKHFRQWHQWRIPBVSHHFKLVDYDLODEOHWRWKHZRUOGLKDYHQRSULYDFBWRHQFUBSWLVWRLQGLFDWHWKHGHVLUHIRUSULYDFBDQGWRHQFUBSWZLWKZHDNFUBSWRJUDSKBLVWRLQGLFDWHQRWWRRPXFKGHVLUHIRUSULYDFBIXUWKHUPRUHWRUHYHDORQHVLGHQWLWBZLWKDVVXUDQFHZKHQWKHGHIDXOWLVDQRQBPLWBUHTXLUHVWKHFUBSWRJUDSKLFVLJQDWXUHZHFDQQRWHASHFWJRYHUQPHQWVFRUSRUDWLRQVRURWKHUODUJHIDFHOHVVRUJDQLCDWLRQVWRJUDQWXVSULYDFBRXWRIWKHLUEHQHILFHQFHLWLVWRWKHLUDGYDQWDJHWRVSHDNRIXVDQGZHVKRXOGHASHFWWKDWWKHBZLOOVSHDNWRWUBWRSUHYHQWWKHLUVSHHFKLVWRILJKWDJDLQVWWKHUHDOLWLHVRILQIRUPDWLRQLQIRUPDWLRQGRHVQRWMXVWZDQWWREHIUHHLWORQJVWREHIUHHLQIRUPDWLRQHASDQGVWRILOOWKHDYDLODEOHVWRUDJHVSDFHLQIRUPDWLRQLVUXPRUVBRXQJHUVWURQJHUFRXVLQLQIRUPDWLRQLVIOHHWHURIIRRWKDVPRUHHBHVNQRZVPRUHDQGXQGHUVWDQGVOHVVWKDQUXPRUZHPXVWGHIHQGRXURZQSULYDFBLIZHHASHFWWRKDYHDQBZHPXVWFRPHWRJHWKHUDQGFUHDWHVBVWHPVZKLFKDOORZDQRQBPRXVWUDQVDFWLRQVWRWDNHSODFHSHRSOHKDYHEHHQGHIHQGLQJWKHLURZQSULYDFBIRUFHQWXULHVZLWKZKLVSHUVGDUNQHVVHQYHORSHVFORVHGGRRUVVHFUHWKDQGVKDNHVDQGFRXULHUVWKHWHFKQRORJLHVRIWKHSDVWGLGQRWDOORZIRUVWURQJSULYDFBEXWHOHFWURQLFWHFKQRORJLHVGRZHWKHFBSKHUSXQNVDUHGHGLFDWHGWREXLOGLQJDQRQBPRXVVBVWHPVZHDUHGHIHQGLQJRXUSULYDFBZLWKFUBSWRJUDSKBZLWKDQRQBPRXVPDLOIRUZDUGLQJVBVWHPVZLWKGLJLWDOVLJQDWXUHVDQGZLWKHOHFWURQLFPRQHBFBSKHUSXQNVZULWHFRGHZHNQRZWKDWVRPHRQHKDVWRZULWHVRIWZDUHWRGHIHQGSULYDFBDQGVLQFHZHFDQWJHWSULYDFBXQOHVVZHDOOGRZHUHJRLQJWRZULWHLWZHSXEOLVKRXUFRGHVRWKDWRXUIHOORZFBSKHUSXQNVPDBSUDFWLFHDQGSODBZLWKLWRXUFRGHLVIUHHIRUDOOWRXVHZRUOGZLGHZHGRQWPXFKFDUHLIBRXGRQWDSSURYHRIWKHVRIWZDUHZHZULWHZHNQRZWKDWVRIWZDUHFDQWEHGHVWURBHGDQGWKDWDZLGHOBGLVSHUVHGVBVWHPFDQWEHVKXWGRZQFBSKHUSXQNVGHSORUHUHJXODWLRQVRQFUBSWRJUDSKBIRUHQFUBSWLRQLVIXQGDPHQWDOOBDSULYDWHDFWWKHDFWRIHQFUBSWLRQLQIDFWUHPRYHVLQIRUPDWLRQIURPWKHSXEOLFUHDOPHYHQODZVDJDLQVWFUBSWRJUDSKBUHDFKRQOBVRIDUDVDQDWLRQVERUGHUDQGWKHDUPRILWVYLROHQFHFUBSWRJUDSKBZLOOLQHOXFWDEOBVSUHDGRYHUWKHZKROHJOREHDQGZLWKLWWKHDQRQBPRXVWUDQVDFWLRQVVBVWHPVWKDWLWPDNHVSRVVLEOHIRUSULYDFBWREHZLGHVSUHDGLWPXVWEHSDUWRIDVRFLDOFRQWUDFWSHRSOHPXVWFRPHDQGWRJHWKHUGHSORBWKHVHVBVWHPVIRUWKHFRPPRQJRRGSULYDFBRQOBHAWHQGVVRIDUDVWKHFRRSHUDWLRQRIRQHVIHOORZVLQVRFLHWBZHWKHFBSKHUSXQNVVHHNBRXUTXHVWLRQVDQGBRXUFRQFHUQVDQGKRSHZHPDBHQJDJHBRXVRWKDWZHGRQRWGHFHLYHRXUVHOYHVZHZLOOQRWKRZHYHUEHPRYHGRXWRIRXUFRXUVHEHFDXVHVRPHPDBGLVDJUHHZLWKRXUJRDOVWKHFBSKHUSXQNVDUHDFWLYHOBHQJDJHGLQPDNLQJWKHQHWZRUNVVDIHUIRUSULYDFBOHWXVSURFHHGWRJHWKHUDSDFH'

for i in range(26):
    tmp = [chr((ord(char) - ord('A') + i)%26 + ord('A')) for char in string]
    print(''.join(tmp))
~~~

将所有的字母循环左移3位解码后的结果：

~~~text
# Privacy is necessary for an open society in the electronic age. And so on.
PRIVACYISNECESSARYFORANOPENSOCIETYINTHEELECTRONICAGEPRIVACYISNOTSECRECYAPRIVATEMATTERISSOMETHINGONEDOESNTWANTTHEWHOLEWORLDTOKNOWBUTASECRETMATTERISSOMETHINGONEDOESNTWANTANYBODYTOKNOWPRIVACYISTHEPOWERTOSELECTIVELYREVEALONESELFTOTHEWORLDIFTWOPARTIESHAVESOMESORTOFDEALINGSTHENEACHHASAMEMORYOFTHEIRINTERACTIONEACHPARTYCANSPEAKABOUTTHEIROWNMEMORYOFTHISHOWCOULDANYONEPREVENTITONECOULDPASSLAWSAGAINSTITBUTTHEFREEDOMOFSPEECHEVENMORETHANPRIVACYISFUNDAMENTALTOANOPENSOCIETYWESEEKNOTTORESTRICTANYSPEECHATALLIFMANYPARTIESSPEAKTOGETHERINTHESAMEFORUMEACHCANSPEAKTOALLTHEOTHERSANDAGGREGATETOGETHERKNOWLEDGEABOUTINDIVIDUALSANDOTHERPARTIESTHEPOWEROFELECTRONICCOMMUNICATIONSHASENABLEDSUCHGROUPSPEECHANDITWILLNOTGOAWAYMERELYBECAUSEWEMIGHTWANTITTOSINCEWEDESIREPRIVACYWEMUSTENSURETHATEACHPARTYTOATRANSACTIONHAVEKNOWLEDGEONLYOFTHATWHICHISDIRECTLYNECESSARYFORTHATTRANSACTIONSINCEANYINFORMATIONCANBESPOKENOFWEMUSTENSURETHATWEREVEALASLITTLEASPOSSIBLEINMOSTCASESPERSONALIDENTITYISNOTSALIENTWHENIPURCHASEAMAGAZINEATASTOREANDHANDCASHTOTHECLERKTHEREISNONEEDTOKNOWWHOIAMWHENIASKMYELECTRONICMAILPROVIDERTOSENDANDRECEIVEMESSAGESMYPROVIDERNEEDNOTKNOWTOWHOMIAMSPEAKINGORWHATIAMSAYINGORWHATOTHERSARESAYINGTOMEMYPROVIDERONLYNEEDKNOWHOWTOGETTHEMESSAGETHEREANDHOWMUCHIOWETHEMINFEESWHENMYIDENTITYISREVEALEDBYTHEUNDERLYINGMECHANISMOFTHETRANSACTIONIHAVENOPRIVACYICANNOTHERESELECTIVELYREVEALMYSELFIMUSTALWAYSREVEALMYSELFTHEREFOREPRIVACYINANOPENSOCIETYREQUIRESANONYMOUSTRANSACTIONSYSTEMSUNTILNOWCASHHASBEENTHEPRIMARYSUCHSYSTEMANANONYMOUSTRANSACTIONSYSTEMISNOTASECRETTRANSACTIONSYSTEMANANONYMOUSSYSTEMEMPOWERSINDIVIDUALSTOREVEALTHEIRIDENTITYWHENDESIREDANDONLYWHENDESIREDTHISISTHEESSENCEOFPRIVACYPRIVACYINANOPENSOCIETYALSOREQUIRESCRYPTOGRAPHYIFISAYSOMETHINGIWANTITHEARDONLYBYTHOSEFORWHOMIINTENDITIFTHECONTENTOFMYSPEECHISAVAILABLETOTHEWORLDIHAVENOPRIVACYTOENCRYPTISTOINDICATETHEDESIREFORPRIVACYANDTOENCRYPTWITHWEAKCRYPTOGRAPHYISTOINDICATENOTTOOMUCHDESIREFORPRIVACYFURTHERMORETOREVEALONESIDENTITYWITHASSURANCEWHENTHEDEFAULTISANONYMITYREQUIRESTHECRYPTOGRAPHICSIGNATUREWECANNOTEXPECTGOVERNMENTSCORPORATIONSOROTHERLARGEFACELESSORGANIZATIONSTOGRANTUSPRIVACYOUTOFTHEIRBENEFICENCEITISTOTHEIRADVANTAGETOSPEAKOFUSANDWESHOULDEXPECTTHATTHEYWILLSPEAKTOTRYTOPREVENTTHEIRSPEECHISTOFIGHTAGAINSTTHEREALITIESOFINFORMATIONINFORMATIONDOESNOTJUSTWANTTOBEFREEITLONGSTOBEFREEINFORMATIONEXPANDSTOFILLTHEAVAILABLESTORAGESPACEINFORMATIONISRUMORSYOUNGERSTRONGERCOUSININFORMATIONISFLEETEROFFOOTHASMOREEYESKNOWSMOREANDUNDERSTANDSLESSTHANRUMORWEMUSTDEFENDOUROWNPRIVACYIFWEEXPECTTOHAVEANYWEMUSTCOMETOGETHERANDCREATESYSTEMSWHICHALLOWANONYMOUSTRANSACTIONSTOTAKEPLACEPEOPLEHAVEBEENDEFENDINGTHEIROWNPRIVACYFORCENTURIESWITHWHISPERSDARKNESSENVELOPESCLOSEDDOORSSECRETHANDSHAKESANDCOURIERSTHETECHNOLOGIESOFTHEPASTDIDNOTALLOWFORSTRONGPRIVACYBUTELECTRONICTECHNOLOGIESDOWETHECYPHERPUNKSAREDEDICATEDTOBUILDINGANONYMOUSSYSTEMSWEAREDEFENDINGOURPRIVACYWITHCRYPTOGRAPHYWITHANONYMOUSMAILFORWARDINGSYSTEMSWITHDIGITALSIGNATURESANDWITHELECTRONICMONEYCYPHERPUNKSWRITECODEWEKNOWTHATSOMEONEHASTOWRITESOFTWARETODEFENDPRIVACYANDSINCEWECANTGETPRIVACYUNLESSWEALLDOWEREGOINGTOWRITEITWEPUBLISHOURCODESOTHATOURFELLOWCYPHERPUNKSMAYPRACTICEANDPLAYWITHITOURCODEISFREEFORALLTOUSEWORLDWIDEWEDONTMUCHCAREIFYOUDONTAPPROVEOFTHESOFTWAREWEWRITEWEKNOWTHATSOFTWARECANTBEDESTROYEDANDTHATAWIDELYDISPERSEDSYSTEMCANTBESHUTDOWNCYPHERPUNKSDEPLOREREGULATIONSONCRYPTOGRAPHYFORENCRYPTIONISFUNDAMENTALLYAPRIVATEACTTHEACTOFENCRYPTIONINFACTREMOVESINFORMATIONFROMTHEPUBLICREALMEVENLAWSAGAINSTCRYPTOGRAPHYREACHONLYSOFARASANATIONSBORDERANDTHEARMOFITSVIOLENCECRYPTOGRAPHYWILLINELUCTABLYSPREADOVERTHEWHOLEGLOBEANDWITHITTHEANONYMOUSTRANSACTIONSSYSTEMSTHATITMAKESPOSSIBLEFORPRIVACYTOBEWIDESPREADITMUSTBEPARTOFASOCIALCONTRACTPEOPLEMUSTCOMEANDTOGETHERDEPLOYTHESESYSTEMSFORTHECOMMONGOODPRIVACYONLYEXTENDSSOFARASTHECOOPERATIONOFONESFELLOWSINSOCIETYWETHECYPHERPUNKSSEEKYOURQUESTIONSANDYOURCONCERNSANDHOPEWEMAYENGAGEYOUSOTHATWEDONOTDECEIVEOURSELVESWEWILLNOTHOWEVERBEMOVEDOUTOFOURCOURSEBECAUSESOMEMAYDISAGREEWITHOURGOALSTHECYPHERPUNKSAREACTIVELYENGAGEDINMAKINGTHENETWORKSSAFERFORPRIVACYLETUSPROCEEDTOGETHERAPACE
~~~

可以看到是一篇关于`Privacy`的文章。接下来就需要把所有的英语单词分开，也就是做英文分词，这个工作非常的繁琐，可以用一些技巧。

# 分词

在中文自然语言处理领域，中文分词往往是第一步骤。因为英文有空格将单词隔开，因此一般不需要进行分词。但是，在某些应用中，也需要英文分词，比如：英文手写识别。这是因为在手写时，单词之间的空格由于过小或者连笔等原因，不能被识别出来，这时就需要对英文进行分词。还有就是有人故意删除了空格🐶。

github上有一个第三方的Python库[wordninja](https://github.com/yishuihanhan/wordninja)，可以快速解决分词问题。不过不能判断句子的结束。

分词结果如下（贴心的转成了小写）：

~~~
privacy is necessary for an open society in the electronic age privacy is not secrecy a private matter is something one doesnt want the whole world to know but a secret matter is something one doesnt want anybody to know privacy is the power to selectively reveal oneself to the world if two parties have some sort of dealings then each has a memory of their interaction each party can speak about their own memory of this how could anyone prevent it one could pass laws against it but the freedom of speech even more than privacy is fundamental to an open society we seek not to restrict any speech at all if many parties speak together in the same forum each can speak to all the others and aggregate together knowledge about individuals and other parties the power of electronic communications has enabled such group speech and it will not go away merely because we might want it to since we desire privacy we must ensure that each party to a transaction have knowledge only of that which is directly necessary for that transaction since any information can bespoken of we must ensure that were veal as little as possible in most cases personal identity is not salient when i purchase a magazine at astore and hand cash to the clerk there is no need to know who iam when i ask my electronic mail provider to send and receive messages my provider need not know to whom iam speaking or what iam saying or what others are saying tome my provider only need knowhow to get the message there and how much i owe them in fees when my identity is revealed by the underlying mechanism of the transaction i have no privacy i cannot here selectively reveal myself i must always reveal myself therefore privacy in an open society requires anonymous transaction systems until now cash has been the primary such system an anonymous transaction system is not a secret transaction system an anonymous system empowers individuals to reveal their identity when desired and only when desired this is the essence of privacy privacy in an open society also requires cryptography if i say something i want it heard only by those for who mi intend it if the content of my speech is available to the world i have no privacy to encrypt is to indicate the desire for privacy and to encrypt with weak cryptography is to indicate not too much desire for privacy furthermore to reveal ones identity with assurance when the default is anonymity requires the cryptographic signature we cannot expect governments corporations or other large faceless organizations to grant us privacy out of their beneficence it is to their advantage to speak of us and we should expect that they will speak to try to prevent their speech is to fight against the realities of information information does not just want to be free it longs to be free information expands to fill the available storage space information is rumors younger stronger cousin information is fleeter of foot has more eyes knows more and understands less than rumor we must defend our own privacy if we expect to have any we must come together and create systems which allow anonymous transactions to take place people have been defending their own privacy for centuries with whispers darkness envelopes closed doors secret handshakes and couriers the technologies of the past did not allow for strong privacy but electronic technologies do we the cypher punks are dedicated to building anonymous systems we are defending our privacy with cryptography with anonymous mail forwarding systems with digital signatures and with electronic money cypher punks write code we know that someone has to write software to defend privacy and since we cant get privacy unless we all do were going to write it we publish our code so that our fellow cypher punks may practice and play with it our code is free for all to use worldwide we dont much care if you dont approve of the software we write we know that software cant be destroyed and that a widely dispersed system cant be shutdown cypher punks deplore regulations on cryptography for encryption is fundamentally a private act the act of encryption in fact removes information from the public realm even laws against cryptography reach only s of aras a nations border and the arm of its violence cryptography will ineluctably spread over the whole globe and with it the anonymous transactions systems that it makes possible for privacy to be widespread it must be part of a social contract people must come and together deploy these systems for the common good privacy only extends s of aras the cooperation of ones fellows in society we the cypher punks seek your questions and your concerns and hope we may engage you so that we do not deceive ourselves we will not however be moved out of our course because some may disagree with our goals the cypher punks are actively engaged in making the networks safer for privacy let us proceed together apace
~~~

可见分词的效果非常好，几乎没有什么问题（至少我没看出来）

虽然没有句号，但是基本上也可以通读了，想做阅读理解的同学可以自己读一下。不想读的同学直接丢到翻译里就行啦。

END



2021/5/23 update

看了一下评论区，有人说是密码朋克宣言的一部分，查了一下确实如此。

这是原文：

~~~
                   A Cypherpunk's Manifesto

                        by Eric Hughes

Privacy is necessary for an open society in the electronic age.
Privacy is not secrecy.  A private matter is something one doesn't
want the whole world to know, but a secret matter is something one
doesn't want anybody to know. Privacy is the power to selectively
reveal oneself to the world.  

If two parties have some sort of dealings, then each has a memory of
their interaction.  Each party can speak about their own memory of
this; how could anyone prevent it?  One could pass laws against it,
but the freedom of speech, even more than privacy, is fundamental to
an open society; we seek not to restrict any speech at all.  If many
parties speak together in the same forum, each can speak to all the
others and aggregate together knowledge about individuals and other
parties.  The power of electronic communications has enabled such
group speech, and it will not go away merely because we might want it
to.

Since we desire privacy, we must ensure that each party to a
transaction have knowledge only of that which is directly necessary
for that transaction.  Since any information can be spoken of, we
must ensure that we reveal as little as possible.  In most cases
personal identity is not salient. When I purchase a magazine at a
store and hand cash to the clerk, there is no need to know who I am. 
When I ask my electronic mail provider to send and receive messages,
my provider need not know to whom I am speaking or what I am saying
or what others are saying to me;  my provider only need know how to
get the message there and how much I owe them in fees.  When my
identity is revealed by the underlying mechanism of the transaction,
I have no privacy.  I cannot here selectively reveal myself; I must
_always_ reveal myself.

Therefore, privacy in an open society requires anonymous transaction
systems.  Until now, cash has been the primary such system.  An
anonymous transaction system is not a secret transaction system.  An
anonymous system empowers individuals to reveal their identity when
desired and only when desired; this is the essence of privacy.

Privacy in an open society also requires cryptography.  If I say
something, I want it heard only by those for whom I intend it.  If 
the content of my speech is available to the world, I have no
privacy.  To encrypt is to indicate the desire for privacy, and to
encrypt with weak cryptography is to indicate not too much desire for
privacy.  Furthermore, to reveal one's identity with assurance when
the default is anonymity requires the cryptographic signature.

We cannot expect governments, corporations, or other large, faceless
organizations to grant us privacy out of their beneficence.  It is to
their advantage to speak of us, and  we should expect that they will
speak.  To try to prevent their speech is to fight against the
realities of information. Information does not just want to be free,
it longs to be free.  Information expands to fill the available
storage space.  Information is Rumor's younger, stronger cousin;
Information is fleeter of foot, has more eyes, knows more, and
understands less than Rumor.

We must defend our own privacy if we expect to have any.  We must
come together and create systems which allow anonymous transactions
to take place.  People have been defending their own privacy for
centuries with whispers, darkness, envelopes, closed doors, secret
handshakes, and couriers.  The technologies of the past did not allow
for strong privacy, but electronic technologies do.

We the Cypherpunks are dedicated to building anonymous systems.  We
are defending our privacy with cryptography, with anonymous mail
forwarding systems, with digital signatures, and with electronic
money.

Cypherpunks write code.  We know that someone has to write software
to defend privacy, and since we can't get privacy unless we all do,
we're going to write it. We publish our code so that our fellow
Cypherpunks may practice and play with it. Our code is free for all
to use, worldwide.  We don't much care if you don't approve of the
software we write.  We know that software can't be destroyed and that
a widely dispersed system can't be shut down. 

Cypherpunks deplore regulations on cryptography, for encryption is
fundamentally a private act.  The act of encryption, in fact, removes
information from the public realm.  Even laws against cryptography
reach only so far as a nation's border and the arm of its violence.
Cryptography will ineluctably spread over the whole globe, and with
it the anonymous transactions systems that it makes possible. 

For privacy to be widespread it must be part of a social contract.
People must come and together deploy these systems for the common
good.  Privacy only extends so far as the cooperation of one's
fellows in society.  We the Cypherpunks seek your questions and your
concerns and hope we may engage you so that we do not deceive
ourselves.  We will not, however, be moved out of our course because
some may disagree with our goals.

The Cypherpunks are actively engaged in making the networks safer for
privacy.  Let us proceed together apace.

Onward.

Eric Hughes
<hughes@soda.berkeley.edu>

9 March 1993
~~~



Cover is created by [logoly](https://www.logoly.pro/)
